# 432 Class 17: 2018-03-20

### Key Materials

- The [slides](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2018/tree/master/slides/class17) will appear when available.
- The [audio files](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2018/tree/master/slides/class16) will appear when available.

In today's class, we will discuss Project 1 and other issues.

## Project 1 Groups for Discussion in Class

Group | Names
------: | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 | Laura Baldassari, Jenny Feng, Maher Kazimi, Satyakam Mishra, Vinh Trinh
2 | Zainab (Albar) Albar, Dongze (Zaza) He, Nik Krieger, Andrew Shan
3 | Andrew Tang, Sneha Vakamudi, Ruipeng Wei, Peter Wilkinson
4 | Gwen Donley, Carli Lehr, Connor Swingle, Frances Wang
5 | Ryan Honomichl, JJ Huang, Xin Xin Yu, Bilal Zonjy
6 | Khaled Alayed, Kedar Mahajan, Preeti Pathak, Sarah Planchon Pope
7 | Estee Cramer, Laura Cremer, Hyun Jo Kim, Roberto Martinez
8 | Abhishek Deshpande, Jack McDonnell, Grace Park, Gabby Rieth
9 | Haimeng Bai, Sophia Cao, Kate Dobbs, Elina Misicka
10 | Vaishali (Vee) Deo, Caroline El Sanadi, Kaylee Sarna, Sandra Silva Camargo

### Your Group Tasks

1. Before class on March 20, you need to post your Progress on Project 1 to Canvas.
    - The work in progress location that is up at Canvas now is a revised setup, which should let you review your colleagues' work if they submit it properly, but still maintain your work as your own, even through multiple passes.
    - The temporary directory I built on GitHub to house HTML files is now gone.
2. In class today, you and your group should discuss the most pressing question each of you has, at this point, about your project.
3. During and after class on Tuesday, but before class on Thursday March 22, you'll be looking over the code of the people in your group, and giving them some feedback on what you see. 
    - At a minimum, be sure to check and see if their HTML file contains anything it should not (like my instructions) or if the labeling doesn't make sense or isn't easy to work with. Make sure they have a real title and their name is provided where it belongs, and that the HTML file contains their name.

## Announcements before class



## Minute Papers After Class 16 (n = 40/41)

### How confident do you feel about your ability to complete Project 1?

1 (Not at all confident) | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 (Extremely confident) | Responses | Mean
---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | --- | ---: | ---: 
0 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 14 | 16 | 8 | 40 | 5.75


### Rate the following subjects in terms of ... 

The table shows Your **Current Knowledge** (*left*) and Your **Interest** in Learning More (*right*).

A Lot | Little | DK | Topic | High | Some | Not | DK
--: | --: | --: | :---------------------------------------------: | --: | --: | --: | --:
3 | 18 | 19 | Regression on time-to-event, survival outcomes | 31 | 8 | 0 | 1
8 | 12 | 20 | Regression on multi-categorical outcomes | 25 | 14 | 0 | 1
1 | 12 | 27 | Regression for count outcomes | 22 | 13 | 2 | 3
5 | 12 | 23 | Linear mixed effects models | 20 | 12 | 3 | 5
2 | 15 | 23 | Cluster / Principal components analysis | 19 | 10 | 2 | 7
0 | 14 | 26 | Classification and regression trees | 16 | 15 | 2 | 7
2 | 7 | 31 | Probit models for binary outcomes | 9 | 17 | 3 | 11

- *Left*: Rate the following subjects in terms of your current knowledge. 
    - "A Lot" = I know how to do this sort of analysis comfortably in R.
    - "Little" = I know a little about this, but not enough to comfortably do an analysis in R.
    - "DK" = I don't know much about this.
- *Right*: Rate the following subjects in terms of your interest in learning more about them.
    - "High" = Very interested in this topic.
    - "Some" = Somewhat interested in this topic.
    - "Not" = Not interested in this topic.
    - "DK" = I don't know enough about this to form an opinion.

### What question(s) about the course are uppermost in your mind now?

1. **When should I use `ols` as opposed to `lm`?**
    - This is a false choice. `ols` and `lm` fit identical models, but provide easy access to different types of output. If you want to use the output generated by the `rms` package using the `ols` function (like, for instance, a nomogram) it's easier to fit the model with `ols` to accomplish that. If you want to use output generated more easily by `lm` (like, for instance, the set of four residual plots) then use `lm`. Or use both. There's nothing to stop you from doing so.

2. **Why would we use nomograms?**
    - There are plenty of situations where you need a graphical representation of a model in order to understand how it works better.
    - There are plenty of situations where nomograms remain fast, compact and easy to use, especially when a computer isn't available.

3. **Is it always better to use complete case analyses for outcome variables, rather than imputing them?**
    - No, but it's often the simpler choice to explain to people. 
    - I'd argue that **multiple** imputation of outcomes is usually a competitive strategy with complete case analysis, since multiple imputation is primarily a way of taking the missingness into account in a rigorous way, but I don't think I'd say the same for simple imputation of outcomes.
    
4. **When is it better to use a spline vs. a polynomial fit?**
    - Another false choice. There's nothing stopping you from doing either in any setting.
    - A spline is likely a more obvious choice whenever you want to let the data decide where the bends in the curve are, rather than (essentially) pre-specifying them, so long as you don't care about explaining the guts of the model to other people. Describing what a spline does **inevitably** involves a graph.
    - If you do care deeply about explaining the guts of the model to other people (as opposed to explaining it to computers) then polynomial fits become more attractive than they do otherwise.

5. **How to select best possible regression model for the study?**
    - Get past the idea that there is one model that is best, and you just need to find it. All models are wrong, and many are useful. You just need to maximize your chances of finding something useful.

6. **It seems as though if degrees of freedom are a limiting factor, wouldn't that be really important, and drive our analysis?**
    - Exactly.
    
7. **What about comparing groups in randomized clinical trials?**
    - That was most of 431 Part B, and then our discussion of regression models and analysis of variance. If you're talking about a binary outcome, it's mostly logistic regression, 2x2 tables and chi-square tests so far, but there's a little more to come.

8. **What about adjusting for baseline differences?**
    - In a regression model, that was a large part of 431 Part C, and then our discussion of analysis of covariance, as well as, well, about 80% of our examples in 432 for ordinary least squares.

9. **When do we use robust linear regression instead of ordinary least squares?**
    - Well, on some level, whenever you like.
    - But I guess the main point is that robust methods are more appealing when regression assumptions don't hold. 

10. **Does the survey you had us take imply `THIS-THING-I-WANT-YOU-TO-DO-WILL-HAPPEN-A-LOT-IN-THE-REST-OF-432`?**
    - No, it doesn't.

